src/trusted-device/README.md, before:

scheb/2fa-trusted-device
=========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/scheb/2fa.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/scheb/2fa)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=master)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/coverage.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=master)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-trusted-device/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-trusted-device)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-trusted-device/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-trusted-device)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-trusted-device/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-trusted-device)

This package extends [scheb/2fa-bundle](https://github.com/scheb/2fa-bundle) with trusted devices support.

---

This repository is a sub-repository of [scheb/2fa](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) and is **READ ONLY**.

**Please do not submit any Pull Request here.** Use the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) instead.

License
-------
This software is available under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Link documentation in sub-repositories

src/trusted-device/README.md, after:

scheb/2fa-trusted-device
=========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/scheb/2fa.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/scheb/2fa)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=master)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/coverage.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=master)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-trusted-device/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-trusted-device)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-trusted-device/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-trusted-device)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-trusted-device/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-trusted-device)

This package extends [scheb/2fa-bundle](https://github.com/scheb/2fa-bundle) with trusted devices support.

---

This repository is a sub-repository of [scheb/2fa](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) and is **READ ONLY**.

**Please do not submit any Pull Request here.** Use the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) instead.

Documentation
-------------
Documentation can be found in the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/blob/master/doc/index.md).

License
-------
This software is available under the [MIT license](LICENSE).
