doc/api.md, before:

Two-Factor Authentication in an API
===================================

This guide describes how to set-up two-factor authentication in a Symfony application that doesn't generate a frontend,
but provides API endpoints instead.

## Prerequisites

To make two-factor authentication work in an API, your **API has to be stateful**. That means the API is starting a
session which is passed by the client on every call. The session is necessary for two-factor authentication to store the
state of the login - if the user has already completed two-factor authentication or not.

If you use a custom authenticator (you may have followed Symfony's guide
[Custom Authentication System with Guard (API Token Example)](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security/guard_authentication.html)),
please make sure your authenticator doesn't authenticate on every request, but only when the
authentication route is called. For an example, have a look at the
[Avoid Authenticating the Browser on Every Request](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security/guard_authentication.html#avoid-authenticating-the-browser-on-every-request)
section in the Symfony guide.

## Setup

ℹ️ For simplicity of this guide, it is assumed that you're building a JSON API and you're using the `json_login`
authentication mechanism, which comes with Symfony. For any other authentication mechanism it should work the same or at
least similar, as long as it lets you configure a custom success handler.

You need to implement 4 classes:

1) A custom success handler for the authentication mechanism
2) A custom "two-factor authentication required" handler for the two-factor authentication
3) A custom success handler for the two-factor authentication
4) A custom failure handler for the two-factor authentication

### Configuration

Please make sure the following configuration options are set on your firewall:

```yaml
# config/packages/security.yaml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            # ...
            two_factor:
                prepare_on_login: true
                prepare_on_access_denied: true
```

### 1) Response on login

This first response is returned after the user logged in. Without two-factor authentication, it would either return
a "login success" or "login failure" response. With two-factor authentication, you eventually need to return a third
type of response to tell the client that authentication hasn't completed yet and two-factor authentication is required.
The client should show the two-factor authentication form then.

If you provide multiple authentication mechanisms for the user to identify themselves, you have to do this for each one
of them.

To implement such a response you need to a custom success handler:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\Authentication\Token\TwoFactorTokenInterface;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

class AuthenticationSuccessHandler implements AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationSuccess(Request $request, TokenInterface $token): Response
    {
        if ($token instanceof TwoFactorTokenInterface) {
            // Return the response to tell the client two-factor authentication is required.
            return new Response('{"login": "success": "2fa_complete": false}');
        }

        // Otherwise return the default response for successful login. You could do this by decorating
        // the original authentication success handler and calling it here.
   }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as a custom `success_handler` for the authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            json_login:  # The authentication mechanism you're using
                success_handler: your_api_success_handler
```

### 2) Response to require two-factor authentication

You need a response that is returned when the user requests a path, but it is not accessible (yet), because the user
has to complete two-factor authentication first. This could be the same as your "access denied" response.

Create a class which implements `Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationRequiredHandlerInterface`
to return the response.

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationRequiredHandlerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

class TwoFactorAuthenticationRequiredHandler implements AuthenticationRequiredHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationRequired(Request $request, TokenInterface $token): Response
    {
        // Return the response to tell the client that authentication hasn't completed yet and
        // two-factor authentication is required.
        return new Response('{"error": "access_denied", "2fa_complete": false}');
    }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as the `required_handler` of the `two_factor` authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            two_factor:
                authentication_required_handler: your_api_2fa_required_handler
```

### 3) Response when two-factor authentication was successful

You need a response that is returned when two-factor authentication was completed successfully and the user is now
fully authenticated. Implement another success handler for it:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

class TwoFactorAuthenticationSuccessHandler implements AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationSuccess(Request $request, TokenInterface $token): Response
    {
        // Return the response to tell the client that authentication including two-factor
        // authentication is complete now.
        return new Response('{"login": "success", "2fa_complete": true}');
   }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as the `success_handler` of the `two_factor` authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            two_factor:
                success_handler: your_api_2fa_success_handler
```

### 4) Response when two-factor authentication failed

You need a response that is returned when two-factor authentication was tried, but authentication failed for some
reason. Implement a failure handler for it:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Exception\AuthenticationException;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationFailureHandlerInterface;

class TwoFactorAuthenticationFailureHandler implements AuthenticationFailureHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationFailure(Request $request, AuthenticationException $exception): ?Response
    {
        // Return the response to tell the client that 2fa failed. You may want to add more details
        // from the $exception.
        return new Response('{"error": "2fa_failed", "2fa_complete": false}');
   }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as the `failure_handler` of the `two_factor` authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            two_factor:
                failure_handler: your_api_2fa_failure_handler
```

## Sending the 2fa code

### POST data

In the API use-case, you'd usually send the two-factor authentication code to the "2fa check" path that you have
configured in your firewall settings. The code is sent over the same way as if you'd send it from the 2fa form - a
`POST` request with post data in the payload.

### JSON data

To better integrate with JSON-style APIs, the bundle also accepts `POST` requests with a JSON payload. Make sure you
send a JSON-encoded payload with a JSON content type, such as `application/json`.

You can use [symfony/property-access](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/property_access.html) notation to
define the parameter names in the [bundle configuration](configuration.md), allowing you to read from complex data
structures.

Please note, since you're dealing with JSON *objects*, you have to use the dot `.` notation to access object properties.
For example, with the following payload:

```json
{"data": {"authCode": "1234"}}
```

you'd use `data.authCode` for the authentication code. The array-style notation `data[authCode]` wouldn't work.

Commit message:

Note on what it means to have a "stateful" firewall

doc/api.md, after:

Two-Factor Authentication in an API
===================================

This guide describes how to set-up two-factor authentication in a Symfony application that doesn't generate a frontend,
but provides API endpoints instead.

## Prerequisites

To make two-factor authentication work in an API, your **API has to be stateful** (`stateless: false` in the firewall
configuration or not configured at all, as it's stateful per default). That means the API is starting a session which is
passed by the client on every call. The session is necessary for two-factor authentication to store the state of the
login - if the user has already completed two-factor authentication or not.

If you use a custom authenticator (you may have followed Symfony's guide
[Custom Authentication System with Guard (API Token Example)](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security/guard_authentication.html)),
please make sure your authenticator doesn't authenticate on every request, but only when the
authentication route is called. For an example, have a look at the
[Avoid Authenticating the Browser on Every Request](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security/guard_authentication.html#avoid-authenticating-the-browser-on-every-request)
section in the Symfony guide.

## Setup

ℹ️ For simplicity of this guide, it is assumed that you're building a JSON API and you're using the `json_login`
authentication mechanism, which comes with Symfony. For any other authentication mechanism it should work the same or at
least similar, as long as it lets you configure a custom success handler.

You need to implement 4 classes:

1) A custom success handler for the authentication mechanism
2) A custom "two-factor authentication required" handler for the two-factor authentication
3) A custom success handler for the two-factor authentication
4) A custom failure handler for the two-factor authentication

### Configuration

Please make sure the following configuration options are set on your firewall:

```yaml
# config/packages/security.yaml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            # ...
            two_factor:
                prepare_on_login: true
                prepare_on_access_denied: true
```

### 1) Response on login

This first response is returned after the user logged in. Without two-factor authentication, it would either return
a "login success" or "login failure" response. With two-factor authentication, you eventually need to return a third
type of response to tell the client that authentication hasn't completed yet and two-factor authentication is required.
The client should show the two-factor authentication form then.

If you provide multiple authentication mechanisms for the user to identify themselves, you have to do this for each one
of them.

To implement such a response you need to a custom success handler:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\Authentication\Token\TwoFactorTokenInterface;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

class AuthenticationSuccessHandler implements AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationSuccess(Request $request, TokenInterface $token): Response
    {
        if ($token instanceof TwoFactorTokenInterface) {
            // Return the response to tell the client two-factor authentication is required.
            return new Response('{"login": "success": "2fa_complete": false}');
        }

        // Otherwise return the default response for successful login. You could do this by decorating
        // the original authentication success handler and calling it here.
   }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as a custom `success_handler` for the authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            json_login:  # The authentication mechanism you're using
                success_handler: your_api_success_handler
```

### 2) Response to require two-factor authentication

You need a response that is returned when the user requests a path, but it is not accessible (yet), because the user
has to complete two-factor authentication first. This could be the same as your "access denied" response.

Create a class which implements `Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationRequiredHandlerInterface`
to return the response.

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationRequiredHandlerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

class TwoFactorAuthenticationRequiredHandler implements AuthenticationRequiredHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationRequired(Request $request, TokenInterface $token): Response
    {
        // Return the response to tell the client that authentication hasn't completed yet and
        // two-factor authentication is required.
        return new Response('{"error": "access_denied", "2fa_complete": false}');
    }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as the `required_handler` of the `two_factor` authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            two_factor:
                authentication_required_handler: your_api_2fa_required_handler
```

### 3) Response when two-factor authentication was successful

You need a response that is returned when two-factor authentication was completed successfully and the user is now
fully authenticated. Implement another success handler for it:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

class TwoFactorAuthenticationSuccessHandler implements AuthenticationSuccessHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationSuccess(Request $request, TokenInterface $token): Response
    {
        // Return the response to tell the client that authentication including two-factor
        // authentication is complete now.
        return new Response('{"login": "success", "2fa_complete": true}');
   }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as the `success_handler` of the `two_factor` authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            two_factor:
                success_handler: your_api_2fa_success_handler
```

### 4) Response when two-factor authentication failed

You need a response that is returned when two-factor authentication was tried, but authentication failed for some
reason. Implement a failure handler for it:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Security;

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Exception\AuthenticationException;
use Symfony\Component\Security\Http\Authentication\AuthenticationFailureHandlerInterface;

class TwoFactorAuthenticationFailureHandler implements AuthenticationFailureHandlerInterface
{
    public function onAuthenticationFailure(Request $request, AuthenticationException $exception): ?Response
    {
        // Return the response to tell the client that 2fa failed. You may want to add more details
        // from the $exception.
        return new Response('{"error": "2fa_failed", "2fa_complete": false}');
   }
}
```

Register it as a service and configure it as the `failure_handler` of the `two_factor` authentication method:

```yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:
    firewalls:
        your_firewall_name:
            two_factor:
                failure_handler: your_api_2fa_failure_handler
```

## Sending the 2fa code

### POST data

In the API use-case, you'd usually send the two-factor authentication code to the "2fa check" path that you have
configured in your firewall settings. The code is sent over the same way as if you'd send it from the 2fa form - a
`POST` request with post data in the payload.

### JSON data

To better integrate with JSON-style APIs, the bundle also accepts `POST` requests with a JSON payload. Make sure you
send a JSON-encoded payload with a JSON content type, such as `application/json`.

You can use [symfony/property-access](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/property_access.html) notation to
define the parameter names in the [bundle configuration](configuration.md), allowing you to read from complex data
structures.

Please note, since you're dealing with JSON *objects*, you have to use the dot `.` notation to access object properties.
For example, with the following payload:

```json
{"data": {"authCode": "1234"}}
```

you'd use `data.authCode` for the authentication code. The array-style notation `data[authCode]` wouldn't work.
