doc/trusted_device.rst, before:

Trusted Devices
===============

Prerequisites
-------------

To make use of this feature, you have to install ``scheb/2fa-trusted-device``.

.. code-block:: bash

   composer require scheb/2fa-trusted-device

What it does
------------

You can give users the possibility to flag devices as "trusted", which means the two-factor process will be skipped after
passing it once on that device.

You have to enable this feature in your configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # config/packages/scheb_2fa.yaml
   scheb_two_factor:
       trusted_device:
           enabled: false                 # If the trusted device feature should be enabled
           lifetime: 5184000              # Lifetime of the trusted device token
           extend_lifetime: false         # Automatically extend lifetime of the trusted cookie on re-login
           cookie_name: trusted_device    # Name of the trusted device cookie
           cookie_secure: false           # Set the 'Secure' (HTTPS Only) flag on the trusted device cookie
           cookie_same_site: "lax"        # The same-site option of the cookie, can be "lax" or "strict"
           cookie_domain: ".example.com"  # Domain to use when setting the cookie, fallback to the request domain if not set
           cookie_path: "/"               # Path to use when setting the cookie

Trusted device cookies are versioned, which gives you (or the user) to possibility to invalidate all trusted device
cookies at once, e.g. in case of a security breach. To make use of this feature, you have to implement
``Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface`` in the user entity.

.. code-block:: php

   <?php

   namespace Acme\Demo\Entity;

   use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;
   use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface;

   class User implements TrustedDeviceInterface
   {
       /**
        * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
        */
       private $trustedVersion;

       // [...]

       public function getTrustedTokenVersion(): int
       {
           return $this->trustedVersion;
       }
   }

If not implemented, the bundle is defaulting to version ``0``.

Flagging a device as "trusted"
------------------------------

To flag a device as "trusted", in the last step of the 2fa process, you have to pass a parameter ``_trusted`` with a
``true``-like value. The parameter name can be changed in the firewall configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

   security:
       firewalls:
           your_firewall_name:
               # ...
               two_factor:
                   trusted_parameter_name: _trusted  # Name of the parameter for the trusted device option

Please have a look at the `default authentication form template <https://github.com/scheb/2fa/blob/5.x/src/bundle/Resources/views/Authentication/form.html.twig#L38-L40>`_
how it's implemented.

Custom trusted device manager
-----------------------------

If you don't like the way this is implemented, you can also have your own trusted device manager. Create a service
implementing ``Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\TwoFactor\Trusted\TrustedDeviceManagerInterface`` and register it in the
configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # config/packages/scheb_2fa.yaml
   scheb_two_factor:
       trusted_device:
           manager: acme.custom_trusted_device_manager  # Use a custom trusted device manager

Conditions for trusted devices
------------------------------

There is a way to check if a device/user fulfills certain conditions, before a device is flagged as "trusted". For
example, you may want to allow trusted devices only within your internal network. In that case, please implement your
own instance of the trusted device manager (as described above) and implement the ``canSetTrustedDevice`` method with the
decision logic you need.

.. code-block:: php

   public function canSetTrustedDevice($user, Request $request, string $firewallName): bool
   {
       return true; // Always allow trusted device feature
   }

Commit message:

Add ability to clear the trusted device cookie programmatically (#71)

doc/trusted_device.rst, after:

Trusted Devices
===============

Prerequisites
-------------

To make use of this feature, you have to install ``scheb/2fa-trusted-device``.

.. code-block:: bash

   composer require scheb/2fa-trusted-device

What it does
------------

You can give users the possibility to flag devices as "trusted", which means the two-factor process will be skipped after
passing it once on that device.

You have to enable this feature in your configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # config/packages/scheb_2fa.yaml
   scheb_two_factor:
       trusted_device:
           enabled: false                 # If the trusted device feature should be enabled
           lifetime: 5184000              # Lifetime of the trusted device token
           extend_lifetime: false         # Automatically extend lifetime of the trusted cookie on re-login
           cookie_name: trusted_device    # Name of the trusted device cookie
           cookie_secure: false           # Set the 'Secure' (HTTPS Only) flag on the trusted device cookie
           cookie_same_site: "lax"        # The same-site option of the cookie, can be "lax" or "strict"
           cookie_domain: ".example.com"  # Domain to use when setting the cookie, fallback to the request domain if not set
           cookie_path: "/"               # Path to use when setting the cookie

Trusted device cookies are versioned, which gives you (or the user) to possibility to invalidate all trusted device
cookies at once, e.g. in case of a security breach. To make use of this feature, you have to implement
``Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface`` in the user entity.

.. code-block:: php

   <?php

   namespace Acme\Demo\Entity;

   use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;
   use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface;

   class User implements TrustedDeviceInterface
   {
       /**
        * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
        */
       private $trustedVersion;

       // [...]

       public function getTrustedTokenVersion(): int
       {
           return $this->trustedVersion;
       }
   }

If not implemented, the bundle is defaulting to version ``0``.

Flagging a device as "trusted"
------------------------------

To flag a device as "trusted", in the last step of the 2fa process, you have to pass a parameter ``_trusted`` with a
``true``-like value. The parameter name can be changed in the firewall configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

   security:
       firewalls:
           your_firewall_name:
               # ...
               two_factor:
                   trusted_parameter_name: _trusted  # Name of the parameter for the trusted device option

Please have a look at the `default authentication form template <https://github.com/scheb/2fa/blob/5.x/src/bundle/Resources/views/Authentication/form.html.twig#L38-L40>`_
how it's implemented.

Clearing the trusted cookie
---------------------------

To clear all trusted cookies for a specific user (e.g. in case of an security issue), increase the version returned by
``getTrustedTokenVersion`` on the user entity.

If you need to programmatically clear the trusted cookie on a device for a specific user and firewall combination, you
can use the ``clearTrustedToken`` method on the ``scheb_two_factor.trusted_token_storage`` service.

Custom trusted device manager
-----------------------------

If you don't like the way this is implemented, you can also have your own trusted device manager. Create a service
implementing ``Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\TwoFactor\Trusted\TrustedDeviceManagerInterface`` and register it in the
configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # config/packages/scheb_2fa.yaml
   scheb_two_factor:
       trusted_device:
           manager: acme.custom_trusted_device_manager  # Use a custom trusted device manager

Conditions for trusted devices
------------------------------

There is a way to check if a device/user fulfills certain conditions, before a device is flagged as "trusted". For
example, you may want to allow trusted devices only within your internal network. In that case, please implement your
own instance of the trusted device manager (as described above) and implement the ``canSetTrustedDevice`` method with the
decision logic you need.

.. code-block:: php

   public function canSetTrustedDevice($user, Request $request, string $firewallName): bool
   {
       return true; // Always allow trusted device feature
   }
