Resources/doc/trusted_device.md, before:

Trusted Devices
===============

You can give users the possibility to flag devices as "trusted", which means the two-factor process will be skipped after
passing it once on that device.

You have to enable this feature in your configuration:

```yaml
# config/packages/scheb_two_factor.yaml
scheb_two_factor:
    trusted_device:
        enabled: false                 # If the trusted device feature should be enabled
        lifetime: 5184000              # Lifetime of the trusted device token
        extend_lifetime: false         # Automatically extend lifetime of the trusted cookie on re-login
        cookie_name: trusted_device    # Name of the trusted device cookie
        cookie_secure: false           # Set the 'Secure' (HTTPS Only) flag on the trusted device cookie
        cookie_same_site: "lax"        # The same-site option of the cookie, can be "lax" or "strict"
```

Trusted device cookies are versioned, which gives you (or the user) to possibility to invalidate all trusted device
cookies at once, e.g. in case of a security breach. To make use of this feature, you have to implement
`Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface` in the user entity.

```php
namespace Acme\DemoBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;
use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface;

class User implements TrustedDeviceInterface
{
    /**
     * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
     */
    private $trustedVersion;

    // [...]

    public function getTrustedTokenVersion(): int;
    {
        return $this->trustedVersion;
    }
}
```

If not implemented, the bundle is defaulting to version `0`.

## Custom trusted device manager

If you don't like the way this is implemented, you can also have your own trusted device manager. Create a service
implementing `Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\TwoFactor\Trusted\TrustedDeviceManagerInterface` and register it in the
configuration:

```yaml
# config/packages/scheb_two_factor.yaml
scheb_two_factor:
    trusted_device:
        manager: acme.custom_trusted_device_manager  # Use a custom trusted device manager
```

Commit message:

Allow the TrustedDevices cookies to be configured by domain  (#194)
Allow the TrustedDevices cookies to be configured by domain (or fallback to the default request domain)

Resources/doc/trusted_device.md, after:

Trusted Devices
===============

You can give users the possibility to flag devices as "trusted", which means the two-factor process will be skipped after
passing it once on that device.

You have to enable this feature in your configuration:

```yaml
# config/packages/scheb_two_factor.yaml
scheb_two_factor:
    trusted_device:
        enabled: false                 # If the trusted device feature should be enabled
        lifetime: 5184000              # Lifetime of the trusted device token
        extend_lifetime: false         # Automatically extend lifetime of the trusted cookie on re-login
        cookie_name: trusted_device    # Name of the trusted device cookie
        cookie_secure: false           # Set the 'Secure' (HTTPS Only) flag on the trusted device cookie
        cookie_same_site: "lax"        # The same-site option of the cookie, can be "lax" or "strict"
        cookie_domain: ".example.com"  # Domain to use when setting the cookie, fallback to the request domain if not set
```

Trusted device cookies are versioned, which gives you (or the user) to possibility to invalidate all trusted device
cookies at once, e.g. in case of a security breach. To make use of this feature, you have to implement
`Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface` in the user entity.

```php
namespace Acme\DemoBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;
use Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Model\TrustedDeviceInterface;

class User implements TrustedDeviceInterface
{
    /**
     * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
     */
    private $trustedVersion;

    // [...]

    public function getTrustedTokenVersion(): int;
    {
        return $this->trustedVersion;
    }
}
```

If not implemented, the bundle is defaulting to version `0`.

## Custom trusted device manager

If you don't like the way this is implemented, you can also have your own trusted device manager. Create a service
implementing `Scheb\TwoFactorBundle\Security\TwoFactor\Trusted\TrustedDeviceManagerInterface` and register it in the
configuration:

```yaml
# config/packages/scheb_two_factor.yaml
scheb_two_factor:
    trusted_device:
        manager: acme.custom_trusted_device_manager  # Use a custom trusted device manager
```
