src/qr-code/README.md, before:

scheb/2fa-qr-code
=================

[![Build Status](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=5.x)](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+branch%3A5.x)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/quality-score.png?b=5.x)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=5.x)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/coverage.png?b=5.x)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=5.x)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-qr-code/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-qr-code)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-qr-code/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-qr-code)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-qr-code/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-qr-code)

This package extends [scheb/2fa-bundle](https://github.com/scheb/2fa-bundle) with QR-codes for Google Authenticator or
TOTP.

---

This repository is a sub-repository of [scheb/2fa](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) and is **READ ONLY**.

**Please do not submit any Pull Request here.** Use the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) instead.

Documentation
-------------
Documentation can be found in the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/blob/5.x/doc/index.md).

License
-------
This software is available under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add direct link to installation instructions on sub-packages

src/qr-code/README.md, after:

scheb/2fa-qr-code
=================

[![Build Status](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=5.x)](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+branch%3A5.x)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/quality-score.png?b=5.x)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=5.x)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/badges/coverage.png?b=5.x)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/scheb/2fa/?branch=5.x)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-qr-code/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-qr-code)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-qr-code/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-qr-code)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/scheb/2fa-qr-code/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/scheb/2fa-qr-code)

This package extends [scheb/2fa-bundle](https://github.com/scheb/2fa-bundle) with QR-codes for Google Authenticator or
TOTP.

---

This repository is a sub-repository of [scheb/2fa](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) and is **READ ONLY**.

**Please do not submit any Pull Request here.** Use the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa) instead.

Installation
------------
Please follow the [installation instructions in the main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/blob/5.x/doc/installation.md).

Documentation
-------------
Documentation can be found in the [main repository](https://github.com/scheb/2fa/blob/5.x/doc/index.md).

License
-------
This software is available under the [MIT license](LICENSE).
